Investigations of Connect4 Project

1. Question: Run minimax with a ply depth of two and SimpleUtility(5,1) against the random player. Does minimax always appear to win in four or five moves?
   Answer: It does appear that Minimax often wins in 4 or 5 moves, but the game length is variable. For example, I observed a game that ran to to ply 30 (i.e. move 15 for minimax player).
           Out of 15 trials minimax player won 100% of the time, but the game lengths varied. This is as would be expected when playing a random player since the random player
           randomly chooses a row and can sometimes pose a threat to minimax player and can sometimes block minimax player from a victory.


2. Question: Play as a human against the minimax player with a ply depth of two and SimpleUtility(5,1). Can you beat the minimax player and does it detect that you are about to win?
	Answer: Minimax player always detects when I am going to win and blocks simple victories. Out of an attempted 5 games, I was able to beat the minimax
	        player on 2 out of 5 times when I was able to force minimax player into blocking a simple victory just to lose to another possible victory location.
	        
3. Question: Increase the ply depth to 3. Can you still beat the minimax player?
    Answer: By increasing the ply depth to 3, I was able to beat the minimax player using vanilla SimpleUtility. It was simple to win as the extra ply would mean that the minimax
            player would not check to see if I was going to be playing a winning move. I altered the SimpleUtility function to add or subtract the loss or win score and to more heavily
            weight a loss than a win. This was important, because the simple utility function would somtimes evaluate to a win with an extra ply when I had already won. Additionally,
            heavily weighting the loss ply meant that even if the minimax player was able to achieve a victory with an extra ply, but still lost the game then the loss would still be 
            reflected instead of netting out to a zero utility. With the proposed changes implemented I was not able to beat minimax player.

4. Question: Increase the ply depth to 4. Can you still beat the minimax player?
   Answer: As above, without implementing the changes stated above, I was able to achieve a few simple victories against minimax player with a ply depth of 4. With the proposed 
           and implemented changes to the utility function I was not able to win.
   
5. Question: Have a minimax player with ply depth 3 v. a minimax player with ply depth 2. Who wins? Does it matter who goes first?
   Answer: In my trials, the game ended in a draw in both variations. Minimax player with ply depth 2 won when it was going first or second.
           In the latter case, there is not any veriability in the chosen board positions, so it is difficult to claim that the
           probability of winning is not dependant on ply depth.

6. Question: Have a minimax player with ply depth 4 v. a minimax player with ply depth 2. Who wins? Does the order matter?
   Answer: In my trials, the game ended in a draw

7. Question: Try out different utility values.
   Answer: I tried the following combinations with two minimax players with the same ply depth:
           1. Minimax player 1 -- (500, 1) v. Minimax player 2 -- (5, 1)
		In this trial, minimax player 2 won.
	   2. Minimax player 1 -- (5 , 1) v. Minimax player 2 -- (500 ,1)
		In this trial, minimax player 1 won.
	   3. Minimax player 1 -- (5, 1) v. Minimax player 2 -- (1, 5)
		In this trial, minimax player 1 won.
	   4. Minimax player 1 -- (1, 5) v. Minimax player 2 -- (5, 1)
		In this trial, minimax player 2 won.
	   It seems that the best utility combinations are those that center around the (5,1) benchmark. Those utility 
	   values that are two greatly different do not seem to contribute to a victory.

8. Question: Add the WithColumnUtility functionality. Can you still beat Minimax?
   Answer: Out of 5 games played against minimax player using the WithColumnUtility, I was unable to beat minimax player.

9. Question: Experiment with minimax player using WithColumnUtility v. minimax player using SimpleUtility. Who wins?
   Answer: minimax player using withColumnUtility won on all occasions. Minimax player using WithColumnUtility using a ply depth of 2
           was able to beat a minimax player using SimpleUtility and a ply  depth of 4.
